---
layout: post
title: The Universe versus Alex Woods by Gavin Existence
subtitle:  The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time meets Educating Rita meets Kurt Vonnegut
bigimg: /img/path.jpg
---
When a novel opens with a young adult being stopped by Police at Dover with 113g of pot and an urn full of ashes in whilst having some sort of nervous breakdown, immediately you know this is going to be a very well spent couple of evenings.

Similar to Kurt Vonnegut, Existence exposes us to the action at the end of the story and then brings the 
reader back to the beginnning of the story to see how the events leading up to the final action have 
impacted our narrator, Alex. On the surface, 'The Universe Versus Alex Woods' is a coming of age novel 
about a naive, quirky misfit teen whose live is shaped by fantastically improbable events. At the age of 10, he is hit on the head 
by a meteorite which leads to Alex developing epilepsy. Forced to stay off school until his fits can be controulled by a combination of and consequently missing out on a large portion of secondary school. 
His single mother is a clairvoyent supporting herself through selling crystals and tarot card reading in a shop in Glastonbury.
Forced to medication and meditation, he spends his days reading and helping out in his clairvoyent mother's crystal shop. 
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2013/mar/15/universe-versus-alex-woods-gavin-extence

The most significant improbable event which happens to Alex is meeting Mr Peterson, an elderly reclusive Vietnam War veteran. 
Mr Peterson discovers Alex hiding from attackers and wrongly presumes that he is up to no good. A punishment; running errands, is enforced by Alex’s mother who
does not play a supportive role at this time and an unlikely companionship develops between the men.
http://www.nyjournalofbooks.com/book-review/universe-versus-alex-woods
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15984268-the-universe-versus-alex-woods
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2013/mar/15/universe-versus-alex-woods-gavin-extence
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15984268-the-universe-versus-alex-woods
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2013/feb/17/universe-alex-woods-extence-review
deeply rational, mother is 
euthanasia

We were surprised to find it the subject of euthanasia was not more distressing or depressing. Alex struggles first to accept Mr Peterson’s deteriorating health and then 
he feels compelled to act on his friend’s wish to decide when the time is right for him to die.

learn emotionally from each other




His single mother sells crystals and reads tarot cards, he was hit by a meteorite at the age of ten and made front page news, his best friend is a pot smoking Vietnam vet and he starts a book reading club at the age of 13. 
refreshing take on potrayed alex who is neuroatypical and naive, his feelings were interesting and refreshing

 universe of Alex Woods, Gavin Extence has written a book that is richer, more lucid than it seems on its surface. T
Alex is precocious, yet touchingly innocent. As the novel progresses he becomes the 
kind of character any parent would be proud to be related to.
I found parts of the novel laugh-out-loud funny. It's made me curious
about Vonnegut, the writer who is clearly something of a favourite, 
and it made things about which I have very little interest seem fascinating.
By the end of the novel I was deeply moved by the relationship 
between Alex and Mr Peterson. What happens is presented logically, and without becoming mawkish. Beautiful. (less)

Saw myself in Alex, dealing with people and took solace in adult friendships
"The first thing I learned that day was this: what you think you know about a person is only a fraction of the story." Well written, sir!
intergenerational organic friendship, not tokenistic, come be the young person in our hospitce

Mr Peterson North American vietnam war, form a friendship, genuine love their friendship
The best description that I can think of for this book is that it reminded me of "a 
mixture of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Up, The Curious
Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, and The Fault in Our Stars."
While that may seem like a strange combination, elements from all
of these works are seamlessly combined to create a humorous, poignant novel that will leave a lasting impression.

naive, too trusting
because his voice,
The Universe Versus Alex Woods is written as a first person
retrospective narrative in the style of Kurt Vonnegut,
whose works play a rather important role in the novel: 
the reader is immediately exposed to the action at the end 
of Alex's story, and is then brought back to the beginning to see how the events leading up to
the present situation influenced and shaped his personality and worldview. At first gl
ance, it is a coming of age story about a young boy, Al
ex, who lives a very unconventional life: 
he doesn't know who his father is,
his mother reads Tarot cards, 
he is a bit of a celebrity after
having been struck by a meteorite when he 
was young, and his best friend is a Vietnam veteran
. However, it is also a thought-provoking work of fiction that deals with many heavy subjects - such as bullying, free will, life, death, euthanasia and morality - in a respectful and meaningful way.

The protagonist, Alex, is a logical, naive, introverted
young man with a compelling, authentic voice. There is a 
lot of social disconnect between him and his peers, due to
the fact that he enjoys learning, voices his opinions -
regardless of their appropriateness - and tends to go off 
on many tangents. As a biology student, I found all of the
detailed information that Alex provided in regards to his
scientific learning to be very interesting (which, from
what I've seen, places me in the minority on that count).
It is hard not to empathize with Alex, whose childlike innocence and unique worldview make him quite easy to like.

The friendship between Alex and Mr. Peterson is very much 
like that of Russell and Carl in Up: a young boy befriends a grouchy old man who lost his wife, and eventually the two begin to consider each other as a family of sorts. I loved watching this friendship grow and develop. Though it was filled with difficulties, the influence that this friendship had on both parties was quite powerful - especially towards the end where it is shown just how much they are willing to do for each other. At the beginning of the novel, Alex is a boy, but with Mr. Peterson's help, he becomes a man with a heightened sense of integrity and a new outlook on life.

Overall, this was an excellent novel that will leave you
with many ethical and existential questions, and will inspire you to read some of Kurt Vonnegut's works.


Amy
